---
layout: post
title: "Homework 5"
date:  Wed Oct 3 2018
---

### Due Wednesday, Oct. 10 at 12 pm on Gradescope. 

1. This reading is an experimental paper, of the kind neuroscientists get their information about the brain from.  Here the authors want to determine the nature of the synaptic connectivity in the area CA3 of the hippocampus, known to be important for forming and recalling memories.  In particular, if there are deviations from that of other areas previously studied.  This is done by testing electrically if a pair of neurons is connected, and repeating for many pairs.  The authors’ innovation is that they record the connectivity (or absence thereof) of eight neurons at a time.  They analyze to find the relative frequency of patterns of connectivity with two synapses (disynaptic motifs).  They conclude by simulations that what they find promotes something called pattern completion (figure it out) that is important for recall. 

Please read [Synaptic mechanisms of pattern completion in the hippocampal CA3 network by Guzman et. al.](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/353/6304/1117)

2. Please watch [Naftali Tishby on the Information Bottleneck](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EQTtBRM0sIs). However, note that the validity of these results is a subject of much debate in the community! See [this ICLR '18 paper](https://openreview.net/forum?id=ry_WPG-A-) for a thorough discussion of the controversy, in both the comments and the paper itself. 

3. Read Part I of [Shannon's 1948 paper on information theory](http://math.harvard.edu/~ctm/home/text/others/shannon/entropy/entropy.pdf). 

4. Submit an at least 1-page (max 5 page) response to Gradescope (see Piazza for some further instructions.) The response should include the following:

  - At least a paragraph for each of items 1, 2, and 3 that summarizes what you found interesting and makes it clear you've done the assignment carefully.

  - Two discussion points/questions you'd like to touch on in class. Also post these on Piazza after you submit your assignment!


