---
layout: post
title: "Homework 1"
date:  Wednesday, September 4 2019
---


### Due Tuesday, Sept. 10 at 11:59 pm on Gradescope. 



1. Read Chapter 2: "Neuroscience Overview" of ["The Computational Brain"](https://mitpress-universitypressscholarship-com.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/view/10.7551/mitpress/9780262533393.001.0001/upso-9780262533393) by Churchland and Sejnowski. Summarize the material in your own words, making sure to include the following: 
    1. What are Marr's 3 levels, and what is a critique of this paradigm?
    2. Describe the Newsome et al. (1989) experiment with MT cells mentioned in the text. What might you conclude from these experiments? What should you _not_ conclude from these experiments?
    3. What are some examples of topographic maps? What are some examples of laminar organization?
    4. Discuss 3 biophysical mechanisms from Table 2.1 and their neural operations.
    5. Which of the "Brain Facts" listed at the end of the chapter do you think are important, and why?
    
2. Read Part1 Chapter 1: "The Brain and Behavior" of [The Principles of Neural Science](https://neurology.mhmedical.com/book.aspx?bookid=1049#59138619). This should be easy to read, and gives an overview of basic neuroscience history and important facts.
    1. What do the spinal cord, brainstem, cerebellum, and hippocampus each do?
    2. Describe the work of Broca, Fritsch, and Hitzig, Wernicke mentioned in the chapter
    3. How does this corroborate the assertion at the end of the chapter that "_...we now think that all cognitive abilities result from the interaction of many processing mechanisms distributed in several regions of the brain. Specific brain regions are not responsible for specific mental faculties but instead are elementary processing units..._"? 

3. Even though we won't focus on language and the brain until the second half of the course, read [The Faculty of Language: What Is It, Who Has It, and How Did It Evolve?](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/298/5598/1569)
    1. What distinction do the authors make between between the faculty of language in the broad sense (FLB) and in the narrow sense (FLN)?
    2. What is an example of evidence that animals can represent number mentioned in the article? What is an example of how animals acquire the "integer list" differently from humans?

4. What are two discussion points/questions that you have?

Submit a LaTeX formatted summary (~2 pages) to Gradescope (see Piazza for instructions on how to sign up for the class.)

Thanks, and enjoy!
