---
layout: post
title: "Homework 1"
date:  Tuesday September 3 2019
---


### Due Wednesday, Sept. 11 at 12 pm on Gradescope. 

1. Read [pp. 1-37 of von Neumann's book "The Computer and the Brain"](https://archive.org/details/TheComputerAndTheBrain). 

 

2. Submit a 1-page response to Gradescope (see Piazza for instructions on how to sign up for the class.) The response should include the following:

  - About a paragraph for each of items 1, 2, and 3 that summarizes what you found interesting and makes it clear you've done the assignment carefully.

  - Two discussion points/questions you'd like to touch on in class.

 

Some example discussion points / items you might respond to:


Q: What are some details of this section of the book that confused you?
 
Q: On page 22, in the section "Mixed Representations of Numbers: Machines Built on this Basis," von Neumann writes "Another significant class of mixed machine types comprises those machines in which each step of the computing procedure (but of course not the logical procedure) combines analog and digital principles. The simplest occurrence of this is when each number is represented in a part analog, part digital way." Can you describe how such a system might work and speculate (i.e. without reading part II of the book) how this might be related to the brain?
 
Q: Is the brain more similar to an analog or a digital computer? Why?
 
Q: What is the significance of the “hierarchy” principle of memory (p.33)? Why does von Neumann think it is relevant to understanding the brain?

Thanks, and enjoy!
